This mill was demolished when the Airport runway was lengthened, c. 1966 and there are no footprints left of this estate except for a burial ground belonging to the Nibbs family. 
At the tip of Barnacle Point was Fort Byam which overlooked and protected Parham sound.  A map of Fort Byam surveyed by Kane William Horneck (1725) is located at John Carter Brown Library, which is at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, and includes an inventory of supplies, a profile of the hill the fort is on and reports of hurricane damage.   There is also a lovely water colour sketch of the Fort with a flag flying, in the collection of prints and artwork once belonging to Ben Quinn of Parham Hill. 

The Nibb's Family Burial Ground was also situated at Barnacle Point with records available up to 1808.  Dr. Reg Murphy was called in when three headstones were disturbed by the backhoe in 2007, one Nibbs family member and a Mr. Collins and his daughter.  They were replaced and buried while the gravestones were packed and sent up to Betty’s Hope where they will be added to a collection of MI’s disturbed island wide by the ubiquitous backhoe in the name of development.    “Again, it's the first time I've ever seen someone buried with their name right on the coffin and it is done in brass text and the copper and it's because of that it survived and the fabric around it and the wood is nailed into survived so there's Jeremiah Nibbs [phonetic] and the date he died, born and died, perfectly preserved [inaudible].”   Dr. Reg Murphy

1832: William Nibbs buried at “Barnacle Point.”
Information on the graves can be found in Oliver Vol.II .

1801: Charles Curtis was manager for Samuel Martin at High Point around 1801-1812.   When Bertie Entwhistle died, Samuel Martin was his trustee and because of this connection, Charles Curtis also managed Golden Grove, Barnacle Point and Jolly Hill, estates belonging to Entwhistle. 
1822: Charles Curtis returned to England.  A relative of Curtis, Janet Richards, recently came into possession of a box of correspondence between him and Samuel Martin including 41 pages of Accounts of the Bertie Entwhistle Trust for the above estates from 1812-1822.Interesting little bits of information can be gleaned from these accounts to give an idea of what was happening on the estate during this period.
Bertie Entwistle who was a senior member of H.M. Council,died at sea on board R.M.S. “Seine” on his way back to Antigua at the ageof 69. It was said that he was worth £35,000 at the time of his death.Two letter books kept in the Jarvis family papers at the  University of Michigan can provide further information.

In 1829 this estate contained 64 acres and shared slaves with another estate.

Legacies of British Slave-ownership:   www.ukl.ac.uk.lbs/search/
Antigua 357 Barnacle Point was awarded £908, 14 s 6 d for slaves not recorded.
Ralph Peters was the single awardee.
1851: Antigua Almanac shows Barnacle Point of 64 acres belonging to Heirs of Bertie Entwistle.   Include painting of Fort Byam at Barnacle Point – Jake Underhill of Parham Hill.

www.tombstones.bb  (2005)
Found—headstones for Collins/William & Collins/Mary Hall.  Recorded not found Nibbs/Jeremiah.  Bird/Ann.

Francis Shand (1800-1868),absentee West Indian merchants and ship owners of Liverpool, who before his marriage, held several leases on local plantations. Through his marriage to Lydia Byam (1837) he became one of the largest proprietors of land in Antigua at that time. He had also been very active in negotiating the terms of emancipation in England.
The 1852 census listed among their properties: 517 acre plantation at Martin’s Byam or Fitche’s Creek in St George’s Parish, MountLucye - 230 acre estate also in St. George’s, Cedar Valley - 128 acre plantation in St. John’s parish, Harts & Royals - two estates consisting of 206 acres, the 90 acre Blizard estate and diverse other estates owned or leased by Francis Shand.  
The union produced 13 children except for that of their heir Charles Arthur Shand. By the mid 1980’s the only property left was Fiche’s Creek. Ghosts in a Plantation House. By Phylis Shand Allfrey

1752: Map of Fort Byam – source Horneck, Kane Williams surveyor.
A report of the state of the fortifications – battery called Byam Fort at the entrance to Parham Harbour. Includes an inventory ofsupplies, a profile of the hill the fort is on and reports of hurricane damage. Which is located at John Carter Brown Library, which is at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island.
“The condition of Fort Byam. The flag staff blown down, the Guard House much hurt and ------- thrown down by the late hurricane.”

R. Allen Stanford who also owns Maiden Island owned Barnacle Point, the land on the sea north and east of the airport. He has built a business jet aircraft maintenance facility, restaurant and docking area. In 2010, Mr. Stanford was jailed in Texas, U.S.A,for his offshore and banking ponzi schemes leaving many people bankrupt, many employees without a job and his properties being contested.  All of his holdings in Antigua were placed in receivership.







<<<<<<< HEAD


=======
>>>>>>> d768156c536e76b05ded1a5495e7f7cf0b25d06d

